# Exchanges
#### Buying with physical money
You can trade your USD, along with some other physical currencies for cryptocurrencies using Exchanges. Sites like [GDAX](https://gdax.com) or [Poloniex](https://poloniex.com) let people put up their cryptocurrencies for sale on a market, and you can buy them with physical money. These sites have some more complex features like limit orders, stop losses, and other terms used in the stock market which allow you to be very specific for how you buy or sell cryptocurrencies.

You can also use sites like [LocalBitcoins](https://localbitcoins.com) to purchase or sell cryptocurrencies. This site in particular allows you to look through a list of advertisements from traders, and see their history and reviews. When you find someone you trustworthy who's selling something you want, you can set a time and place to meet up with them in person, and trade them cash. Once you do, the cryptocurrency is then deposited in your account.

[Coinbase](https://coinbase.com) is a popular way for US residents to purchase two of the top cryptocurrencies which are Bitcoin and Ethereum. You can make an account and upload your drivers license to get verified, then make purchases using a credit card or a bank account. You must first verify your credit card and bank account, which can take several days. After you do, you can make instant purchases with your credit card, or make higher limit purchases with a bank transfer.  When using the bank transfer option, the price of Ethereum is locked in when you make the purchase, but it may take a week or so for the Ethereum to arrive in your account.  While you are waiting for it to get to your account, you can not spend it. This option is best for those who plan to buy and hold onto their money, because you are unable to resell it quickly if you are trying to cut your losses, or make some money if the price jumps up soon after you buy it.
