# Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs)

Many open-source blockchain projects are raising money through cryptocurrency crowdfunding, known as 'initial coin offerings' (or ICOs). Similar to initial public offerings (IPOs) for the stock market, investors of a new cryptocurrency can provide early funding in return for some amount of the new coins before the cryptocurrency is deployed. Once the coin is live and can be mined and/or traded on exchanges, investors are sent the amount of new coin invested into their wallets. ICOs have been considered ‘the future of fundraising’ since  ease of use and the simple steps needed to invest allow a large amount of interested investors to back a project/coin. This is in contrast to other more ‘traditional’ fundraising, like [venture capital or private equity](http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/020415/what-difference-between-private-equity-and-venture-capital.asp).

#### Why do individuals invest in ICOs?
People choose to invest in ICOs because their investment is both a way to support an open-source project and make money on the cryptocurrency's potential increase in value. Some of the most popular ICOs offer solutions to society's problems, such as the [Humaniq](https://humaniq.co/?_ga=2.129434761.488867700.1493844992-998258822.1493844750) project, whose mission is to offer a secure and simple banking tool for people who don't or cannot hold a bank account because of a lack in either education, identification, or both. Others like [Kin](https://kin.kik.com/#Newsletter) by the popular messaging company Kik are cryptocurrencies designed to be used for everyday digital services.
 
#### Regulation & Standards
While new ICOs are launched often, as of now there is no set government regulation of the crowdfunding. This has left citizens of many countries, including some in the United States, unable to participate in ICOs. Many ICOs set rules including a cap on the amount of money they wish to raise, and only accept Bitcoin or Ethereum as payment.

#### How do I participate in an ICO?
Joining an ICO is a simple task, but projects looking to crowdsource funding can have different requirements for how they recieve money, distribute the coins, and pay for development, among other things. For demonstration purposes we will pretend a new project named 'NewCoin' is holding an ICO and investor John would like to participate. 

NewCoin prepares their ICO with a set launch date and time window to raise funds. During this time, John is required to create a NewCoin wallet for the newly formed cryptocurrency and exchange his bitcoin or ethereum for NewCoins. John can see on NewCoin's ICO page that 1000 NewCoin = 0.01 Bitcoin, with a limit of purchasing no more than 10,000 NewCoin. John decides to buy 2000 NewCoin and thus send 0.02 Bitcoin from his personal Bitcoin wallet to NewCoin's address. The ICO closes several days later, and NewCoin officially launches their blockchain. John's 2000 NewCoins are automatically deposited into his wallet and ready to be used. 

Upcoming ICOs can be found on sites such as [ICO Countdown](http://www.icocountdown.com/). It is important to note that investors commonly research, analyze, and speak to members of the company or project launching the ICO before investing.
