# Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs)
Many open-source blockchain projects are raising capital via cryptocurrency crowdfunding, popularly known as 'initial coin offerings' (or ICOs). Similar to initial public offerings (IPOs) for the stock market, investors of a new cryptocurrency can provide early funding in return for a pre-determined amount of the new coins before the cryptocurrency is deployed. Once the coin is live and can be mined and/or traded on exchanges, investors are issued the amount of new coin invested into their wallets. ICOs have been considered ‘the future of fundraising’ since accessibility and simplicity are advantageous in comparison to private venture capital or public stock offerings.
 
#### Why do individuals invest in ICOs?
ICOs are intriguing to investors since their investment is both a way to support an open-source project and capitalize on the cryptocurrency's potential increase in value. Some of the most appealing ICOs offer aspirational solutions to societal problems such as the [Humaniq](https://humaniq.co/?_ga=2.129434761.488867700.1493844992-998258822.1493844750) project, whose mission is to offer a secure and simple banking tool for people who cannot hold a bank account due to lack of education or lack of identification. Others like [Kin](https://kin.kik.com/#Newsletter) by the popular messaging company Kik are cryptocurrencies designed to be used for everyday digital services.
 
#### Regulation & Standards
While new ICOs are launched often, standards and government regulation of the crowdfunding activity is largely undefined today. This has left citizens of many countries, including the United States, unable to participate in ICOs. Additionally, many ICOs set rules including a cap on the amount of money they wish to raise and use Bitcoin or Ethereum as the only exchanged currency for investment.

#### How do I participate in an ICO?
Participating in an ICO is a fairly simple endeavor considering projects looking to crowdsource funding can differ in their requirements and approach. For demonstration purposes we will pretend a new project named 'NewCoin' is holding an ICO and investor John would like to participate. 

NewCoin prepares their ICO with a set launch date and time window to raise funds. During this time, John is required to create a NewCoin wallet for the newly formed cryptocurrency and exchange his bitcoin or ethereum for NewCoins. John can see on NewCoin's ICO page that 1000 NewCoin = 0.01 Bitcoin, with a limit of purchasing no more than 10,000 NewCoin. John decides to buy 2000 NewCoin and thus send 0.02 Bitcoin from his personal Bitcoin wallet to NewCoin's address. The ICO closes several days later, and NewCoin officially launches their blockchain. John's 2000 NewCoins are automatically deposited into his wallet and ready to be used. 

Upcoming ICOs can be found on sites such as [ICO Countdown](http://www.icocountdown.com/). It is important to note that investors commonly research, analyze, and speak to members of the company or project launching the ICO before investing.
