# What is Cryptocurrency?
***Note:** This is a constantly expanding portion of the site that will grow in both content and clarity over time.*

## Cryptocurrencies
In 2008, a person (or group of people) under the pseudonym "Satoshi Nakamoto" released a document describing a global digital currency system controlled by no one entity, but is instead controlled by every user of the system via a technology he called a "Blockchain". This document spawned the first cryptocurrency "Bitcoin", but would eventually be the inspiration for hundreds of other cryptocurrencies.

You may be familiar with Bitcoin already; you may have heard that it skyrocked to over 50 times it's original value in less than a year, or seen a headline claiming that people use it to pay for things online. A cyptocurrency's value is based solely on supply and demand.  A bitcoin is only worth what another person is willing to pay for it, so if lots of people want it, it's price goes up. If people don't want it, its price moves down.

How can you pay for something with a cryptocurrency? Similar to using a debit card, when you try to buy something, the system will make sure you have enough money in your account, and if it does, it will deduct that amount from your account and add it to whoever you are trying to pay. Cryptocurrencies accomplish this by using a system called a "blockchain", which is basically a ledger. Suppose there are two people, Alice and Bob, who want to make a transaction using a cryptocurrency (like Bitcoin). Alice submits a request to pay Bob, which she signs with a secret key (more on that later but for now suffice it to say that this ensures that the request actually came from Alice).  This request is sent to every user of the blockchain, so that they can verify Alice has enough money to pay Bob.  If she does, every user updates their copy of the blockchain by subtracting the amount from Alice's account, and adding it to Bob's.  The cool thing is that all of this checking and updating of the blockchain is done automatically, so you don't actually have to do any extra work!

## Blockchains
We've referred to the term "blockchain" before, so you might be wondering what it is. A blockchain is the underlying technology that allows cryptocurrencies to work. It is essentially a record of all the transactions that have ever been made between people on the network. By looking at this ledger, you can tell how much money any individual person has.

#### Example
Let's imagine there is a community of people who use cryptocurrency to pay for products and services they desire. In this community there is an person named Carl. Whenever anyone in this group wants to send money to anyone else, they must first tell Carl about the details of the transaction, and Carl writes it in his **big notebook of transactions**. Say another person, David, wishes to give $10 to Erica. David tells Carl "I want to give Erica $10"; Carl checks David's ID and signature to make sure it's really him, then Carl reads through all of the transactions in his **big notebook of transactions** to figure out how much money has come in and out of David's account. If after Carl reads through the whole notebook of everyone's transactions and sees David doesn't have $10 to give to Erica, the transaction doesn't happen. If David does have enough money, $10 is deducted from his total balance and Erica gains $10, and the transaction is recorded in Carl's **big notebook of transactions**.

This system may seem simple but it has one glaring flaw; Carl must be a trustworthy member of the community. If he makes a mistake calculating balances or acts maliciously, the system becomes flawed and unfair. This is what is called a "single source of truth" system, which is used in modern day banking. Through decentralization, we can allow everyone in the community to have an up-to-date **big notebook of transactions** so no one has to trust any one member of the community.

## Decentralization
A decentralized system is one where no individual in the network controls any significant portion of the something, whether that be power or the source of truth. Voting is one such system, where everyone in the community comes together to make a decision without any one person having more opportunity to influence the outcome than any other person.

#### Example
Let's take the system we outlined in the previous example and apply a decentralized approach. In our new system, instead of all members of the community having to report their transactions to only Carl, they instead tell every other member of the community about the transaction. Now every member of the community has a **big notebook of transactions**, and whenever a trade happens, everyone writes down the details.  

This approach prevents the previous issue of Carl making an error calculating balances or more importantly him acting maliciously. Now, if Carl tries to change his notebook to claim he has more money than he really does, his notebook would have a different history than every other member of the community and his version would be ignored. With enough people holding **big notebooks of transactions**, it becomes extremely hard to cheat the system unless over half of the community conspires to all record the same false transactions.

Another important benefit of this approach, is if a member of the community loses their notebook, they can simply retrieve a copy of anyone else's notebook and rejoin the network. This prevents anyone from taking down the financial network the community has established as the attacker would have to burn the notebooks of everyone in the community which becomes very difficult once the community reaches a large size.

## Efficiency
While the decentralized approach from the above example may seem like a large improvement from the initial centralized approach we started with, you might think "Hmm, having to tell every single person about every transaction could get hectic. Wouldn't this system be slow?" The fact that a member of the community has to tell everyone whenever they want to make a transaction seems like an inefficient way of doing things.

Thanks to modern day technology, all of this informing, book-keeping and verification can be done on a computer. Given the fact that computers are millions of magnitudes faster than humans at processing data, the transactions and record-keeping are nearly instant. This also allows for the system to scale to the population of the world, instead of the small community.


## What makes a cryptocurrency worth anything at all?
You may be wondering how bits on the computer can possibly be worth anything at all. Lets break it down using familiar examples.

**The US Dollar**: a currency used to buy things in the United States. A dollar is simply a piece of paper with some numbers on it. What makes it worth anything more than a cryptocurrency? You may be thinking, "isn't the dollar backed by gold?", but you'd be wrong. It hasn't been backed by gold since [1934](https://www.federalreserve.gov/faqs/currency_12770.htm). But for the sake of simplicity, lets pretend we took a small trip back in time. Gold has **intrinsic value**. It can be made into jewelry, it's conductive, so it can be used in electrical application (such as your computer or smartphone) yet resists oxidation, unlike copper. There is also a limited amount of gold; while you technically can make gold, the process is too expensive to make it worthwhile to sell it afterwards. These factors contribute to why gold has value. But what about cryptocurrencies?

#### Are they a limited resource?
For most cryptocurrencies, there is a limited number of "coins" in circulation at any given time. You can't simply "create" a bitcoin and add it to your wallet, due to complex cryptography and transaction logging. These coins are currently created by "miners" who form the backbone of any cyptocurrency using Proof of Work. Proof of Stake is a new concept that is going to be implemented into Ethereum so mining won't be necessary anymore.
  
#### Do they have intrinsic value?
Well, yes and no. For example, Bitcoin can be seen as a "store of value", with its price being dictated by supply and demand. The more people that think bitcoins are worth something, the more people buy into it, and consequently the price goes up. Ethereum has intrinsic value because the blockchain provides the backbone for running "smart contracts", which can basically be a program of any kind. You can interact with these contracts by sending Eth. People who believe Ethereum is going to become more popular buy into it, and its price increases.
  
## Who buys cryptocurrencies?
The types of people who purchase cryptocurrencies are as diverse as you'd find in the stock market. There are many currencies, each of the top coins promising to solve existing shortcomings of the centralized systems in our modern day society, as well as create new applications only possible using blockchain technology.

#### Day Traders
Just like in the stock market, there are people who seek to profit from the flucuations in the price of cryptocurrencies. They purchase a currency when the price is low, and sell it when the price is high. However, many cryptocurrencies are far more volatile, and have the potential of gaining or losing upwards of 20% of their value in a single day. This makes for a very profitable outcome if a trader is able to time the market ups and downs.

#### Holders
Some people believe that cryptocurrencies are a natural progression for society. They believe that eventually, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin or Ethereum will become common-place, and used for everything from paying your electricity bill to purchasing food at a restaurant. By purchasing now at a discounted price, they believe the value of their currency will exponentially increase with demand.

#### Corporations
Certain cryptocurrencies have drawn interest from enterprise corporations. Ethereum leads the pack in this area gaining the interest of large companies like Microsoft, Santander, and JP Morgan just to name a few. These companies will seek to migrate their existing inefficient systems over to blockchain technology to take advantage of the lightning fast speed and savings in operational costs.

## What are some examples of cryptocurrencies?
#### Bitcoin
Bitcoin is blockchain's first digital asset referred to as cryptocurrency. Its an innovative payment solution powered by blockchain technology. It acts as a peer to peer cash payment system and a storage of value with security built at its core. It was the first payment solution to solve the double-spend problem after the crash of 2008. Double-spending is the result of successfully spending some money more than once. Bitcoin, as seen on exchanges as (BTC) has a stock supply, generally called coins or tokens, of 21,000,000BTC which are divisible by 100M units per coin. Each unit is uniquely identifiable and programmable allowing users to assign custom properties to each unit. A unit can represent a USD, a share in a company, a KwH of energy, a digital certificate of ownership, 1,000 barrels of oil, loyalty credits or electoral votes. As of March 2017 each coin is worth $1,059 giving it a $17.2B market capitalization. Bitcoin leverages the blockchains open sourced codebase, referred to as an open API (application program interface) and created its own API allowing innovators to leverage its payment network for transacting and engineering new use cases.

#### Ethereum
Ethereum is a decentralized digital contracts system. It is the first large scale computer allowing applications to run exactly as programmed without any possibility of downtime, censorship, fraud or third party interference. It has the potential to be a secure backbone for everything from e-commerce to IoT enabling transparent governing systems for communities and businesses. It handles user authentication, security, messaging and decentralized storage of data. Digital contracts are programmed rules that are enforced by Ethereums underlying core code which sits on top of the Blockchain and leverages portions of Bitcoins code. The programming is done with a programming laneguage which is executed on a browser called Mist. This allows developers who are knowledgable in Java, C, Python to program "smart contracts". It has the 2nd largest market cap valued at $3.74B. It has the potential to be the next evolution of the worldwide web.

#### Dash
Dash is easy to use digital cash for instant, private and secure transactions. Dash does this by leveraging several existing blockchain solutions such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and Lightning Network which provides a faster way to transact. Dash automatically provides different sending and receiving address for every transaction all the while allowing each user to retain a private encrypted account authentication code that only they know. Dash’s premier technology Evolution make’s digital cash easy to use and access for all users, even those who aren’t technologically savvy. Anybody will be able to setup an account on the blockchain, add contacts and pay them by name. Purchases from websites or mobile apps will be simple, requiring only a single click. It is comparable to that of PayPal for blockchain. It enables the access of digital cash on any computer eliminating the need to store and access digital currency on one and only one device.

