Welcome to Blockstreet. This site was founded by a group comprised of engineers, entrepreneurs and cryptographers that are all brought together by our mutual interest in Blockchain technology and it's promise to change the world. During our time following and getting involved in the cryptocurrency community, we noticed some things we can improve on.

There are plenty of sites that report cryptocurrency news, shows you the latest price ticker, and give you information about existing and upcoming currencies; but among them there are none that do these things in a simple, straightforward manner. Particularly, there aren't any sites that explain the many complicated concepts of cryptocurrency for non-technical people to understand. Even the promotional sites for currencies and the tokens built on them fail to communicate with a majority of people.

From our observations, we noticed that:
* A large population of people _have never heard of cryptocurrency._
* A large population of people who have heard of cryptocurrency _do not know what it is._
* A large population of people who know what cryptocurrency is _do not know how it works._

We at Blockstreet seek to teach these groups of people how cryptocurrencies work, how they can change the world, and how they can get involved. We want to tear down this wall and open up understanding and opportunities to that larger audience of people, and get them involved in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Our goal is to present information in a way that anyone can understand. We plan to support the written content with visual aids in the form of artwork and animations.

Blockstreet aims to become the go-to source for any new users interested in the blockchain ecosystem. Instead of trying to explain the complicated topic of what cryptocurrencies are and how they work, existing investors and users may refer their friends and loved ones to our education section for a full, yet simple introduction to cryptocurrency.

Our education section at the moment covers some basics of cryptocurrency with analogies that help readers build a mental model of how blockchain technology works. We hope to grow it into a complete guide that covers the inner workings of systems that cryptocurrencies use such as proof of stake, sharding, and mining.
