Cryptocurrencies are changing the concept of money. The innovations in this area will have a profound effect on tomorrow’s financial world and banking systems. 

A lot of people have heard about Bitcoin. However, Bitcoin is not the only player in the cryptocurrency market. New currencies are being introduced regularly. The decentralized payment platform OmiseGO’s OMG token is one of the recent promising additions to the cryptocurrency world.

### Omise - The History of the Company
The Thai financial technology (fintech) company Omise is behind the decentralized application (DApp) OmiseGO. CEO Jun Hasegawa and COO Ezra Don Harinsut started the company in 2013. Initially, Omise focused on electronic payment systems. With a $300K seed funding, it started to build its foundations. In 2015, it launched its first payment gateway in Thailand. The same year it secured a Series A funding of $2.6 million.

Omise continued its success story through expanding into Japan, Indonesia, and Singapore. It was one of the early financial contributors to Ethereum Foundation’s DEVgrants. Soon it realized that there was a great opportunity in Ethereum and started to develop OmiseGO based on the technology. By 2017, Omise had raised $25 million in a “Initial Coin Offering” (ICO) to develop OmiseGO.

### OmiseGO e-Wallet and OMG Token
The objective is to create an Ethereum-based e-wallet that will enable financial transactions through fiat and decentralized cryptocurrencies. The platform will support tokens like Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC) and more along with its own currency OMG.
OmiseGO Blockchain’s differentiating factor is its decentralized exchange implementation. Cryptocurrency exchanges are becoming a bottleneck and a theft risk. The decentralized exchanges enable peer-to-peer transaction without the need for trusted third-party involvement. Due to the transparency into market activities, decentralized exchanges promote market confidence. OmiseGO plans to use Ethereum-based smart contracts and protocol tokens to enforce market behavior.

Omise has also built a great interface to the network. The OmiseGO Software Development Kit (SDK) allows various industries to create their own customized payment systems. It gives digital wallet providers flexibility and control which will help attract more players into the network.

### Current State of the Project
Besides raising $25 million, OmiseGO has attracted some of the most revered cryptocurrency experts. Vitalik Buterin and Dr. Gavin Wood from Ethereum, Roger Ver from Bitcoin, Joseph Poon from Lightning Network, and more are serving in various advisory capacities for this venture.

Omise has a track record of success in the Asian market. A lot of mainstream Asian companies are already using Omise online payment systems, so OMG token has a higher chance of being adopted as a mainstream cryptocurrency. There have even been rumors that McDonalds in Thailand have been looking into using OmiseGO payment systems, but those rumors are purely speculative at this point. 

OmiseGO will also provide new opportunities for the Asian markets where it's difficult to transact funds across countries. This could be a huge opportunity for the OMG network.

### The Future of OmiseGO
OmiseGO has solid funding, the confidence of the market, and smart people working to make it a success. The company seems to have a robust and effective marketing strategy. Recently, the OMG token price has soared due to high demands. It seems like OmiseGO (OMG) is destined for great success in the cryptocurrency world.
