As hundreds of developers poured into the main hall of the International Convention Center in Cancun, the second day of devcon3 was quickly underway. Péter Szilágyi kicked off the day with his presentation titled “Developers Developers Developers”, where he discussed the several options that Ethereum developers have to assist them such as Truffle and the Ropsten test net, while also identifying some of the problems that arise from using these tools. He went on to talk about Puppeth which alleviates these issues.

Next up in the main hall was Marcus Ligi to present the android application WALLETH. He went into detail about the importance of Ethereum accessibility on mobile. There was a heavy focus on the user experience side of development to introduce as little friction as possible.

Following up Marcus’ presentation was Jarrad Hope from Status that had a wealth of new announcements. We learned that Status will be deploying to all platforms (iOS, Android, MacOS, Windows and Linux) using React Native. Status will be using near field communication (NFC) technology in the form of a card to confirm transactions made on your phone, turning it into a hardware wallet.

Martin Swende gave an interesting talking about Ethereum's security, mentioning how he started on the Ethereum project as a security lead a couple days before Devcon2, where the network was hit with a DOS attack. One of Martin's major takeaways for the audience was that "cryptoland is like disney land for hackers", due to the relatively low risk, high reward they get for hacking and scamming people in the cryptospace. He also mentioned how his team runs millions of tests each day.  There was a slide shown briefly showing several exploits and vulnerabilities that had been discovered over that past month or so, with the most recent having no description, indicating it may be too sensitive to reveal the full nature of it just yet.

An interesting quote from Marley Gray with Microsoft: "Everything we do at microsoft starts with Ethereum, and we branch out from there". His talk mainly discussed enterprise smart contracts, and using "cryptlets" which can communicate with eachother or underlying blockchains.  He had planned to announce a working prototype people could start beta testing, but unfortunately wasn't able to get it up to snuff before his talk.  He said that he hopes to have it available for testing in about two weeks.

There were several excellent talks in the much smaller Breakout hall in the afternoon. These included presentations by Manuel Aráoz on "Evolution of Smart Contract Security in the Ethereum Ecosystem", Phil Daian's "Enter the Hydra - an Experimental Approach to Smart Contract Security", Loi Luu's "Oyente", and lastly, Quentin Hibon's "Securify: Not Your Grandma's Smart Contract Verification". All of these talks dealt with security in the smart contract ecosystem.  Oyente is a smart contract analysis tool which uses symbolic logic to check the validity of contracts. Hydra takes an interesting approach, trying to incentivise potential attackers to report security vulnerabilities rather than abuse them.  Manuel Aráoz focused on some common pitfalls Solidity developers run into when creating smart contracts, and some best practices on avoiding them. Securify is an absolutely wonderful webapp where you can simply paste in your smart contract code, and it will analyze where your mistakes are.  A particularly interesting feature of Securify is it's automatic testing: Quentin claims that this means while it may detect false positives, it will not provide false negatives, which means you'll know your code is good to go.

**Links to projects from article:**
* Status: https://status.im/
* Walleth: http://walleth.org/
* Securify: https://securify.ch
* Hydra: https://thehydra.io
* Oyente: https://github.com/melonproject/oyente

*Blockstreet.io will be at devcon3 through the weekend, add us on Linkedin ([Nick](https://linkedin.com/in/nklombardi),  [Josh](https://linkedin.com/in/joshsemedo)) and shoot us a message if you want to meet up!*
