You’ve invested in or acquired some lovely, shiny (I think we all imagine they’d be rather shiny), valuable cryptocurrency. Be it Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, or any other form of cryptocurrency, one detail you might not be thinking about are the tax implications of your new asset. However, it is dangerous to overlook this aspect of your investment. While it is possible the IRS may never come calling, you don’t want to end up on the wrong side of an audit. It’s generally wise to bet the IRS will get its due, and the IRS is very aware of cryptocurrency trading as evidenced by its 2014 bulletin regarding virtual currencies. However, there are strategies you can use to control or lessen your tax liability when trading and investing in cryptocurrency. Making smart decisions about how you invest in cryptocurrency and when you sell it requires considering how you’ll be taxed. 
	
For the most part, the IRS has classified cryptocurrencies as property in the US which means your cryptocurrency is going to be subject to the same rules as other capital investments. The way your cryptocurrency affects your tax liability begins with how you received it. If you bought the currency from an exchange, you’ve made an investment which will be taxed down the road as a capital gain. If you received the cryptocurrency in exchange for goods or services (or mining), the currency is taxed as general income at the fair market value in US dollars at the time you receive it and will also create additional capital gains or losses when you sell or exchange it in the future.

Capital investments, generally speaking, are not taxed while they are being held, but when they are realized – sold or spent. Liquidating or exchanging your investment triggers taxable income which is determined by comparing your initial investment (the basis) against the sale price. If you spend the coin, or some fraction thereof, you determine the “sale price” based on the value of the purchase made. Previously, trading one type of cryptocurrency for another fell into a gray area which wouldn’t trigger the capital gain tax, but moving forward this is being closed by the new tax bill. The difference between the sales price and the basis is your capital gain (or, hopefully not, loss), and it is this amount which is treated at taxable income. The taxation of this gain is broken down further by long-term and short-term capital gains. Long-term gains come from investments held for longer than a year, while short-term gains, as you might have guessed, come from investments held for a year or less.

Short-term capital gains are taxed exactly like income and will be taxed at whatever tax bracket you fall into which ranges from 10% to 39.6%. The exact rate at which your long-term capital gains are taxed is dependent upon your overall tax bracket (including the capital gains). For 2017, single individuals (and married individuals filing separately), there is no long-term capital gains tax for those whose total taxable income is under $37,950. This number increases to $50,800 for Head of Household filers and to $75,900 for those who are married and filing jointly. A large majority of the US falls into these categories, but a savvy investor like you may not be so lucky. If your taxable income exceeds these thresholds, these long-term capital gains are taxed at 15% (or 20% for the highest tax bracket). 

When it comes to tax liability, these capital gains can be offset by any capital losses you incurred in the same time period when calculating your net capital gain. If you made a Capital gain of $10,000 and took a loss of $1,000 on another investment, your net capital gains are only $9,000 - the amount subject to taxation. It’s valuable to know that when you are calculating your net gains or losses that a loss in either short or long term capital can be applied to gains in the other.

You can manufacture a loss by selling an investment which is currently selling for less than you paid for it (or the value it had when you received it) to negate your capital gains, or effect which tax bracket you fall into. However, remember you cannot buy back the investment you sold off until 30 days have passed without violating the ‘Wash-Sale Rule’ which would negate the loss for this round of taxes and have other consequences we can talk about another time. You can deduct as much as $3000 from your total income if you have net losses at the end of the day. Any amount over $3000 can be carried over into the next year.

It should be noted there may be local and state tax implications for your cryptocurrency assets as well, and you should consult local resources regarding these. The most important aspect to all of this is keeping good records of your trades and acquisitions. You want to be able to accurately track the basis of any cryptocurrency you own so you can make informed decisions regarding the timing of sales and income reporting.

The burden for reporting these gains and losses is on the individual investor/owner for the most part (although some platforms are providing documentation for you depending on the value of your portfolio), and it is best to stay on top of your assets to avoid owing the IRS any back taxes or being under the threat of a tax evasion charge.

Now for the good news. You can sidestep all of these capital gains tax issues with your investment by trading your cryptocurrency within a Self-Directed IRA. Self-Directed IRAs will let you make the calls about what to invest in, including cryptocurrency. Assets within an IRA are sheltered from taxes while they are held in the fund. The assets won’t be taxed for any capital gains made, though it also means you won’t be able to claim any losses against your annual income. 

The IRA will be taxed eventually when you take distributions from it, but only as basic income. Generally, standard income is taxed at a higher rate than capital gains which is important if you think you’ll be in a higher tax bracket when you retire. 

Alternatively, you can set up a Self-Directed Roth IRA where your initial investment is made with post-tax money, but you avoid tax consequences from any gains the funds make as well as on distribution. This limits initial investment, but can really make a difference in the long run if you’ve made some clever acquisitions by dodging the capital gains tax with a Roth IRA. Even if you need the funds before retirement (which you probably will), pulling the retirement fund early incurs a tax penalty of 10%, which is still below the lowest capital gains bracket of 15%.

---

_All materials have been prepared for general information purposes only. The information presented is not legal advice, is not to be acted on as such, may not be current and is subject to change without notice. Blockstreet is a website for blockchain education, cryptocurrency data and news articles. Blockstreet is not a broker/dealer nor an investment advisor and is not responsible for what readers of the site choose to do with the information provided._
