Picking the right Altcoin to invest in is a nerve wracking experience these days. Fear and trepidation can get you stuck on step one, never committing to anything. Nothing can guarantee the future, but good solid research of the fundamentals of a new cryptocurrency investment can help you get past the nerves and make a potentially life-changing investment. Today, we’ll be looking at an interesting cryptocurrency with a lot of potential, RaiBlocks.

RaiBlocks (XRB) sells itself as a faster, feeless, and more scalable cryptocurrency than those that came before it. RaiBlocks backers point to the increased transaction time and fees necessary to the operation of older cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin, and suggest these issues will interfere with their ability to function as a true everyday option. This is important in the long term viability of a currency; if it isn’t practical to use daily, it’s just another commodity. 

RaiBlocks was developed in 2014 by Colin LeMahieu with it’s white paper published in November 2015. RaiBlocks uses a block-lattice data structure which is designed to offer no fees, near-instantaneous transactions, and infinite scalability making it an ideal option for an everyday currency in the future. XRB’s block-lattice data structure means each account has its own blockchain, with each block on the chain representing a single transaction. Only the account owner can make a change to its own blockchain. For instance, a transfer of XRB is made up of both a send transaction from the sender's account and a receive transaction on the receiving end. The network confirms these transactions against each other, and makes use of a proof of stake (PoS) voting system to deal with conflicts. This PoS system keeps those with an investment in XRB incentivized to run nodes to keep the system secure. Additionally, as only the head of each account-chain is necessary to verify balances, pruning is a simple way to keep the system scalable moving forward.

Transactions are instantaneous and free as the system requires minimal resources to keep a node running. The power required for a single transaction with XRB is extremely low, with some figures suggesting about 1.35 million RaiBlocks transactions can be accomplished with the power for a single Bitcoin transaction. Additionally, the data usage for XRB transactions is meant to be at the minimum value for a single UDP packet, keeping bandwidth needs exceptionally low. Together, this keeps the infrastructure sustainable moving forward.

Trading at a value of $17.34 at the time of this writing with a market cap of approximately $2.3 billion, RaiBlocks has a fixed supply of 133,248,289 with all existing XRB having been distributed at this point. XRB is one of several newer cryptocurrencies looking to shake up the market by offering an innovative model to compete with more established coins. With a lot of press currently focusing on the potential unsustainability of the more power intensive options out there, XRB is in a good place to step in as a legitimate option going forward. With it’s value increasing drastically since early December 2017 but still relatively low priced, there is an opportunity now to get on board in the early stages.

While RaiBlocks looks promising, it is currently undergoing some node-related issues with various exchanges. The currency won the vote to be included on the popular exchange Binance, which was positively anticipated by members of the community, but has been delayed since as the node issues are being fixed. Withdrawals on other exchanges are also frozen as of current (Bitgrail, Mercatox) which has negatively effected the price. Many RaiBlocks supporters see the decreased price as a buying opportunity to capitalize on the future growth of the coin, as they are confident the issues will be resolved.

Personally, I haven’t seen anything from the development team that suggests they are not capable of resolving the issue, and have only seen hard work over the last few weeks.
