Today started off with Hudson Jameson’s talk, “Intro to Solidity (2017 edition)”. This was a high level talk, with brief explanations about the various IDEs and tools one could use to develop smart contracts. While technically there are 6 languages which can be used to write smart contracts, Serpent and Mutan are both deprecated. The others currently in use are LLL, which stands for either “low level language” or “lisp like language” depending on the developer you ask. Viper is the successor to Serpent, maintained by Vitalik himself. Bamboo is a newer smart contract language which makes state transitions explicit and avoids reentrance problems. Solidity, the main point of this talk, is a newer smart contract language which is similar to Javascript. Jameson’s talk walked us through the development of a smart contract, from start to finish, using simple tools, like Remix.

Everton Fraga and Victor Maia gave an interesting presentation titled “Mist: Towards a decentralized, secure architecture”. Fraga spoke of how far Mist’s development has come since the original devcon. He was excited to talk about the advancements in security and ui designs, but the main surprise was when Victor Maia came out to talk about Moon Lang and Moon Browser, which are a safe to import, fast language and a lightweight, formally verified browser created for decentralized applications. This would increase security and allow people to write dapps which can safely import functions without worrying about people hiding malicious code in them. It is also small enough to be formally proven secure.

Andy Milenius did a presentation on DappHubb. He started out preaching the Unix design philosophy: when you are building a tool, make it do one thing, and make it do that one thing well.  He then seemed to go out on the offensive, saying how the ethereum ecosystem seemed be all about tokens and raising money, when what we need are open source tools. The crowd was very supportive of his ideas; he also suggested that token should be extremely simple and only do a couple things, and the business logic should be decoupled from it. He showed off Hevm, an interactive solidity debugger, seth, a command line “Ethereum swiss army knife”, and Dappsys, the provable standard library.

Raine Revere, Lead Prism Architect at Shapeshift.io, gave a talk aimed at developers, which was split into high-level and low-level patterns for smart contracts. One of the low-level patterns she mentioned was central logging, which is imperative when developers create smart contracts that interact with each other, so you can have sane, readable logging. The three high-level patterns she discussed were Role Analysis, Context Dependence, and Leadership.


MetaMask definitely had one of the most entertaining (but also informative and exciting) presentations of Devcon 3 so far. They talked about statistics, such as how they’re nearing 200k downloads of their software, and how at some point they were responsible for 10% of ethereum transactions happening. After Aaron Davis had done a sort of general introduction, a MetaMask employee came out in a dinosaur suit, which received a lot of laughs from the crowd. The last employee, Frankie Pangilinan, announced MetaMascara, which is a way to use MetaMask without having to download the software, and instead you can just include it like a CDN.
