# What is Cryptocurrency?
topics: bitcoin, blockchain, decentralization, transactions
briefs: digital signatures, wallets, store of value, source of truth

\tCryptocurrencies are a way to represent value, digitally.  The first major cryptocurrency is called Bitcoin.  You may be familiar with Bitcoin already: you may have heard it was used on the  "darkweb" or heard about it skyrocketing over 50 times it's value in less than a year. You can think of cryptocurrencies as a digital store of value.  Similar to how if you wanted to make a purchase of a 1000$ laptop at a store with your debit card, the point-of-sale machine reads your card, determines your account information, then checks to see if you have enough money to make the purchase. All cryptocurrencies(##factcheck) use what's called a blockchain(##link).  Suppose there are two people, Alfred and Bart, who want to make a cryptocurrency transaction, using Bitcoin. In simple terms, Alfred wants to send 3 bitcoins to Bart. Alfred's transaction is signed(##modal about signatures) to prove it came form his wallet(##modal about wallets). To check if Alfred has enough money for the transaction, we look at a list of every transaction to every wallet since the start of Bitcoin.
{picture example of list of transactions}
By looking through every transaction that's ever been made, we can see, without a doubt, that everyone has exactly the amount of Bitcoin they should. Imagine it like this: there is a group of 100 people trading cryptocurrencies.  Whenever anyone in this group wants to send money to anyone else in this group, they must first come to me and tell me the details of the transaction.  I record these in a big notebook:  When Person #1 tells me he wants to give 10$ to Person #2, I check their ID to make sure it's really them, then read my notebook from start to finish, and calculate all the money that has come in and out of Person #1's account.  If he has enough money for the transaction, I write it down in my notebook.  Simple right?  But you might see a problem: Cryptocurrencies don't have a physical representation like dollars or euros.  Because all of their wealth is represented in my notebook, if I accidentally write down the wrong amount, or maliciously change someone's wealth, I have the single source of truth, so everyone would just have to believe me.  This might happen in the real world, with a bank having a software bug causing them to misplace their customer's money, or a greedy executive changing the ledgers and "cooking the books".  The benefit to these cryptocurrencies based on blockchains, are that they are decentralized. Instead of Person #1 coming up to me to make a transaction, imagine Persons #10-#20 check every transaction, come to the agreement of what's correct, then send a copy of the up-to-date notebook to every other person, so we all see everything adds up exactly how it should. This means if I dropped my notebook in the pool and it got ruined, I could just get a full up to date copy from someone else, and nothing would be lost.  If I was the only person with the notebook of transactions(in the case of a major credit card company, for example) and I lost that log, I'd have no way of knowing how much money anyone else has.  This is the benefit to decentralization: no one party is the source of truth, so the truth can't be manipulated.
