# Forking
Blockchains have protocols, or a set of rules they must follow to remain consistent. If no one followed any of the protocols, the whole system wouldn't work.

When a cryptocurrency decides to update their protocols, sometimes they become incompatible with previous rules. It may make a rule which limits the size of blocks on the blockchain, or increases the amount of transactions per second by changing something else. If any of these changes are incompatible with the old protocol rules, a fork will happen. A fork is just like a "fork in the road": The cryptocurrency can continue along the same path (the original protocol) or it can take a new direction by using the new protocol rules. There are accidental forks, which can be the result of updating the blockchain protocol with code that seems like it should work with the old protocol, but an unforseen bug causes incompatibility, creating a fork. There are also hard forks, where the developers of a particular cryptocurrency know that a protocol update will cause incompatibility.

This seems like a problem: If the blockchain is updated with this new protocol, what happens with all the previous blockchain transactions? What if this new protocol isn't how I think this cryptocurrency should be? Does everyone automatically switch?

### Think of it like this
Take driving (**bitcoin**), for example. Our government has rules for how people should be driving; stop at stoplights, drive on the right side of the road, pull over for emergency vehicles, etc (**these are the current protocols**). If people did whatever they wanted, this would cause lots of accidents. In the US, we always drive on the right side of the road. Imagine a study came out that showed traffic flowed more efficiently and there were less accidents (**more transactions/improved security**) if everyone drove on the left side (**new protocol**) of the road instead. Several major states (**nodes/miners**) decide to enforce the rule that you must drive on the left side of the road. I can't just leave one of the left-driving states and drive on the left side of the road all over the country, because I would be breaking other states laws (**protocols**). Eventually, if the majority of states (**minors/nodes**) switch to left-driving (**new protocols**), it would become the standard for driving (**cryptocurrency**).

## Soft Forks
A soft fork is when the protocol is updated, but it is backwards compatible with the old protocols. This is preferable to a hard fork, because it doesn't stop the original chain from validating blocks. In math terms, a soft fork of a cryptocurrency is a **subset**, meaning anything new blocks or rules in the soft fork will work in the original blockchain.

#### Example
Imagine I own a chain of restaurants, McCryptos: The Original, and my rules for payment say "You're allowed to pay with $100 bills or smaller, Visa cards, or Master cards, but not American Express cards (these payment methods represent a blockchain's **protocol**)." Now imagine one of my managers decides to open (**fork**) a new McCryptos called McCryptos 2: Electric Boogaloo in a new area, but his payment methods (**protocol**) say "You're allowed to pay with small bills ($1, $5, or $10 bills), and Visa cards, but no Master or American Express cards (this is the new fork's **protocol**)."

Any customer that buys food at the new McCryptos 2: Electric Boogaloo (the **soft fork**) can only use those payment methods. Dave can buy a burger from McCryptos 2: Electric Boogaloo using a $10 bill just fine. He could also choose to use that $10 bill at the original McCryptos.  Alice can use a Master card at the original McCryptos, but she can **not** use the Master card at the new McCryptos 2: Electric Boogaloo, because the new payment methods are a **subset** of the original, meaning they contain some elements of the original set(**protocol**), but not all, and nothing outside the original set.

The old nodes supporting the original chain will accept all new blocks, because they still fall within protocol rules.

## Hard Forks
When a **hard fork** occurs, you end up with two parallel blockchains. One is the old chain, with the nodes following the original protocol. The other is the new chain, with nodes following the new set of rules. Whichever chain ends up with more support becomes the "official". A hard fork happens because the new protocol changes are not backwards compatible, so any nodes supporting the original chain see the new blocks/transactions being mined as invalid. This can end up as a very messy process if there isn't a clear majority of users willing to switch to the forked blockchain. If all of the nodes and users don't switch to one fork or the other, the cryptocurrency ends up becoming duplicated, with users unable to create transactions across the forks. In this case, whichever cryptocurrency fork has the majority userbase becomes the "original" or main currency. This has happened with Ethereum, due to an exploit in a smart contract allowing a "hacker" to withdraw 70 million USD worth of Ethereum from the DAO. This caused a call for a hard fork, and Ethereum split into Ethereum (ETH) and Ethereum Classic (ETC), with the vast majority of users choosing to follow ETH. You can read more about this particular fork [here](https://www.cryptocompare.com/coins/guides/the-dao-the-hack-the-soft-fork-and-the-hard-fork/).

#### Example
Let's go back to the restaurant example. Say I still have the original McCryptos with it's original payment methods (**protocols**). One of my managers opens up a new McCryptos, McCryptos 2, but this time, there are more varied payment methods. Customers can pay with any bill, the owners also accept Canadian currency, Visa, Master, American, Paypal, and you can link your Amazon account and pay through that. These payment methods are a **superset**, meaning they contain all the original payment methods (**protocols**) in addition to more. This means that the same payments (**blocks**) can not be processed at the original McCryptos(**original blockchain**).

The old nodes will **not** accept blocks from the new fork, because the protocol says the new blocks are invalid.
