# Immutability
If something is immutable, it can not be changed. When it comes to digital immutability, you can think of it as something that is "written in stone". It should not be changed in anyway, for better or worse. 

## Think of it like this
Every block in the blockchain is like a note written in permanent marker, and then the page is laminated. There's no way to go back and change what was written. If Alice sent Bob 5 crypto-coins, that is written down and laminated.  If there was a mistake, and Alice gets her coins back, there would be a record saying she sent them to Bob, then they were returned from Bob, rather than not showing up on the blockchain at all.  This assures every transaction is permanent and documented.  Having an immutable blockchain increased security; for example, if it's immutable, there's not a worry of an evil party manipulating the blockchain to give themselves 1 billion crypto-coins. The more copies of the blockchain a community has, the more "secure" it is.  If you have Alice, Bob and Carl are using a blockchain, and Alice and Bob decide to create a fake transaction where Carl gives half of his money to Alice and the other half to Bob, there will be a fork in the blockchain: one chain with no transaction, and two with Alice and Bob's malicious transaction. If each person is a miner with equal power, Alice and Bob will be able to create a longer blockchain. The longest blockchain is considered the "authentic" one, and so Carl would lose his money.  This is a simplification of what is known as a 51% attack(someone doublecheck and make sure what I said is accurate).

